Doc/#746 tutorials (#561)
Avaiga/taipy-doc: docs/getting_started/index.md

installed:

``` console
$ pip install taipy
```

!!! info "Other installation options"
    
    You can find additional instructions on the [installation page](../installation/index.md) 
    if you require different ways to install Taipy or don't have Python or pip installed.

## First Taipy Scenario 
Taipy introduces the concept of a *Scenario* to model pipeline executions. A *Scenario* consists 
of an execution graph, often represented as a Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG), where tasks (or 
functions) exchange data. You can make your scenario as easy or as complicated as you want, 
depending on what you need.

For your first scenario, we'll create a simple "Hello World" example to show you the 
configuration process. Here's a picture of the scenario's execution graph, which has two data 
nodes (blue boxes) and one task (orange box):

![hello world example](hello_world.svg){width=50%}

This involves a single input data node called *name*. Afterward, a task called *build_message* 
takes the first initial data node and returns a second data node called *message*.

Building the corresponding Taipy application requires three easy steps.

### Configuration

> The first step involves configuring the execution graph. This includes 
> configuring data nodes, tasks, and scenario itself. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The initial step is to set up the execution graph, which involves configuring data nodes, tasks, and the scenario itself. 
```

Use the following Python code:

```python linenums="1"
from taipy import Config

def build_message(name: str):
    return f"Hello {name}!"

name_data_node_cfg = Config.configure_data_node(id="input_name")
message_data_node_cfg = Config.configure_data_node(id="message")
build_msg_task_cfg = Config.configure_task("build_msg", build_message, name_data_node_cfg, message_data_node_cfg)
scenario_cfg = Config.configure_scenario("scenario", task_configs=[build_msg_task_cfg])
```

- Lines 4-5 define the function that the task will use during execution.
- Lines 8-9 configure the two data nodes, *input_name* and *message*.
- Line 10 configures a task called *build_msg* associated with the *build_message()*
  function, specifying the input and output data nodes.
- Finally, line 11 configures the execution graph of the scenario providing 
  the previously configured task.

### Core service run

The Core service processes the configuration made in the previous step to set up the scenario 
management feature.

Include the following code in your Python script:

```python linenums="1"
from taipy import Core

if __name__ == "__main__":
    Core().run()
```

> Line 3 is standard boilerplate code to ensure your script runs only from the main module, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Line 3 is standard boilerplate code to ensure your script runs only from the main module, 
```

preventing accidental execution. It is strongly recommended to include it.

> In line 4, we instantiate and run a Core service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Line 4 instantiates and runs a Core service.
```

### Scenario creation and data access

With the Taipy Core service up and running, you can create and manage scenarios, submit 
task graphs for execution, and access data nodes. Here's a code snippet to illustrate  
these actions:
```python linenums="1"
import taipy as tp

hello_scenario = tp.create_scenario(scenario_cfg)
hello_scenario.input_name.write("Taipy")
hello_scenario.submit()
print(hello_scenario.message.read())
```

In line 3, method `tp.create_scenario()` instantiates the new scenario name *hello_scenario* 
from the scenario configuration built before.

> Line 4, sets the input data node *input_name* of *hello_scenario* with the string value "Taipy" 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Line 4, sets the input data node *input_name* of *hello_scenario* with the string value "Taipy" 
```

using the `write()` method.

> Line 5 submits the *hello_scenario* for execution, which triggers the creation and execution of 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Line 5 submits the *hello_scenario* for execution, which triggers the creation and execution of 
```

a job. This job reads the input data node, passes the value to the *build_message()* function, 
and writes the result to the output data node.

> Line 6 reads and prints the output data node *message* written by the execution of the scenario 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Line 6 reads and prints the output data node *message* written by the execution of the scenario 
```

This interaction is typically integrated into Python functions that get triggered by end-user 
actions in a graphical interface built using Taipy. 

In this section, we suggest a basic graphical interface for interacting with the previously created 
scenario. Use the following Python code:
``` python
from taipy import Gui

hello_scenario = None
input_name = "Taipy"
message = None

def submit_scenario(state):
    state.hello_scenario.input_name.write(state.input_name)
    state.hello_scenario.submit(wait=True)
    state.message = hello_scenario.message.read()

page = """
Name: <|{input_name}|input|>

<|submit|button|on_action=submit_scenario|>

Message: <|{message}|text|>
"""

if __name__ == "__main__":
    Core().run()
    hello_scenario = tp.create_scenario(scenario_cfg)
    Gui(page).run()
```

TODO: explain the code above and result below

![result](result.png){width=50%}

Combining both the scenario and the Gui parts, you can download the entire Python code for the 
example from the link:
<a href="./hello_world.py" download>`hello_world.py`</a>

That covers the fundamental steps to begin with Taipy. For more realistic 
use cases and advanced features, refer to the 

> [Tutorials](../tutorials/index.md), [demos](../demos/index.md), or 

Author: ```suggestion
[tutorials](../tutorials/index.md), [demos](../demos/index.md), or 
```
